Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator/README.md, before:

## Security Profiles Operator

---

Linux processes run in [Linux User Space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_space), and use [Syscalls](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/syscalls.2.html) to access Kernel resources in [Linux Kernel Space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_kernel). Following [least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege) best practices, syscalls should be restricted to only those needed by an application.

Secure computing mode, a.k.a. [seccomp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seccomp) , is a Linux kernel feature that is used to restrict the syscalls available to the application/container.

In this section of the workshop, attendees will use the `Security Profiles Operator` to install seccomp profiles into the `seccomp-test` Kubernetes namespace, and apply the syscall-restricting profiles to pods running in the `seccomp-test` namespace. The `Security Profiles Operator` installs the seccomp profiles onto cluster nodes. Pods reference the seccomp profiles using the pod-spec `securityContext` element, seen below.

```yaml
  securityContext:
    seccompProfile:
      type: Localhost
      localhostProfile: operator/seccomp-test/<SECCOMP_PROFILE_NAME>.json
```

Applying restrictive seccomp profiles is a way to enforce least privilege syscalls on pods.

(Note: Using a Kubernetes validating admission controller, like [OPA/Gatekeeper](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/08/06/opa-gatekeeper-policy-and-governance-for-kubernetes/), can enforce the configuration of seccomp profiles in the `securityContext` element of pod resources.)

---

[Security Profiles Operator](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator)

[Installation and Usage Documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator/blob/master/installation-usage.md)

[Restrict a Container's Syscalls with seccomp](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/clusters/seccomp/)

---

### Installation
```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.5.4/cert-manager.yaml
kubectl --namespace cert-manager wait --for condition=ready pod -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=cert-manager
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator/master/deploy/operator.yaml
```

### Deinstallation
(Note: Profiles cannot be deleted while still in use.)

```bash
kubectl delete seccompprofiles --all --all-namespaces
kubectl delete -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator/master/deploy/operator.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Complainer
In this example, a seccomp profile is used to setup seccomp in "complain mode", logging syscalls made by a pod.

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/complainer.yaml
```
Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/complainer.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_LOG"}

exit
```
Apply the `complainer` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/complainer.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod complainer -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `complainer` pod is running.

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session on the pod node, and verify that syscalls are being logged:
(Note: The IP address column may need to be added to the SSM Fleet Manager console to help locate the correct managed instance.)

```bash
sudo su
cat /var/log/audit/audit.log | grep nginx

exit
```
Log entries should contain syscalls:

```bash
...
type=SECCOMP msg=audit(1634920756.032:13211): auid=4294967295 uid=0 gid=101 ses=4294967295 pid=19014 comm="nginx" exe="/usr/sbin/nginx" sig=0 arch=c000003e syscall=8 compat=0 ip=0x7f5648cbf597 code=0x7ffc0000
...
```

#### Clean-up:

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/complainer.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/complainer.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Complain and block high-risk
In this example, we will apply a seccomp profile that logs syscalls, blocks high-risk syscalls, and allows some essential syscalls. 

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/multiple.yaml
```

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
ls -al /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/

total 16
drwxr--r-- 2 65535 65535 150 Oct 22 16:30 .
drwxr--r-- 4 65535 65535  60 Oct 21 19:09 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  34 Oct 22 16:30 profile-allow-unsafe.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  34 Oct 22 16:30 profile-block-all.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535 813 Oct 22 16:30 profile-complain-block-high-risk.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  32 Oct 22 16:30 profile-complain-unsafe.json

cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/profile-complain-block-high-risk.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_LOG","architectures":["SCMP_ARCH_X86_64"],"syscalls":[{"names":["exit","exit_group","futex","nanosleep"],"action":"SCMP_ACT_ALLOW"},{"names":["acct","add_key","bpf","clock_adjtime","clock_settime","create_module","delete_module","finit_module","get_kernel_syms","get_mempolicy","init_module","ioperm","iopl","kcmp","kexec_file_load","kexec_load","keyctl","lookup_dcookie","mbind","mount","move_pages","name_to_handle_at","nfsservctl","open_by_handle_at","perf_event_open","personality","pivot_root","process_vm_readv","process_vm_writev","ptrace","query_module","quotactl","reboot","request_key","set_mempolicy","setns","settimeofday","stime","swapoff","swapon","_sysctl","sysfs","umount2","umount","unshare","uselib","userfaultfd","ustat","vm86old","vm86"],"action":"SCMP_ACT_ERRNO"}]}
```

Apply the `block-high-risk` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/block-high-risk.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod block-high-risk -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `block-high-risk` pod is running.

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session on the pod node, and verify that syscalls are being logged:
(Note: The IP address column may need to be added to the SSM Fleet Manager console to help locate the correct managed instance.)

```bash
sudo su
cat /var/log/audit/audit.log | grep nginx

exit
```

Log entries should contain syscalls:

```bash
...
type=SECCOMP msg=audit(1634920756.032:13211): auid=4294967295 uid=0 gid=101 ses=4294967295 pid=19014 comm="nginx" exe="/usr/sbin/nginx" sig=0 arch=c000003e syscall=8 compat=0 ip=0x7f5648cbf597 code=0x7ffc0000
...
```

#### Clean-up:

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/block-high-risk.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/multiple.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Block all
In this example, we will apply a seccomp profile that blocks all syscalls. This will prevent the NGINX container from starting.

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/multiple.yaml
```

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
ls -al /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/

total 16
drwxr--r-- 2 65535 65535 150 Oct 22 16:30 .
drwxr--r-- 4 65535 65535  60 Oct 21 19:09 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  34 Oct 22 16:30 profile-allow-unsafe.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  34 Oct 22 16:30 profile-block-all.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535 813 Oct 22 16:30 profile-complain-block-high-risk.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  32 Oct 22 16:30 profile-complain-unsafe.json

cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/profile-block-all.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_ERRNO"}

```

Apply the `block-all` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/block-all.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod block-all -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `block-all` pod is not running.
```bash
kubectl describe pod block-all | grep -i error
```

The output should be similar to this:
```bash
...
Error: failed to start container "block-all-container": Error response from daemon: cannot start a stopped process: unknown
...
```

#### Clean-up:

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/block-all.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/multiple.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Confine NGINX - Explicit Deny
In this example, we will apply a seccomp profile that was created using the [confine](https://github.com/shamedgh/confine) tool. This profile defaults to the `SCMP_ACT_ALLOW` action and explicitly denies a list of syscalls using the `SCMP_ACT_ERRNO` action.

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/confine-nginx-explicit-deny.yaml
```

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
ls -al /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/

total 16
total 4
drwxr--r-- 2 65535 65535   32 Oct 27 19:21 .
drwxr--r-- 4 65535 65535   60 Oct 21 19:09 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535 1686 Oct 27 19:21 confine-nginx-explicit-deny.json

cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/confine-nginx-explicit-deny.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_ALLOW","architectures":["SCMP_ARCH_X86_64","SCMP_ARCH_X86","SCMP_ARCH_X32"],"syscalls":[{"names":["msync","mincore","shmctl","pause","getitimer","getpeername","fork","semget","semop","semctl","msgget","msgsnd","msgrcv","msgctl","flock","truncate","symlink","lchown","ptrace","syslog","setreuid","setregid","getpgid","setfsuid","setfsgid","rt_sigpending","rt_sigqueueinfo","utime","mknod","personality","ustat","sysfs","getpriority","sched_rr_get_interval","munlock","mlockall","munlockall","vhangup","modify_ldt","pivot_root","adjtimex","sync","acct","settimeofday","swapon","swapoff","reboot","iopl","ioperm","init_module","delete_module","quotactl","readahead","tkill","set_thread_area","io_submit","io_cancel","get_thread_area","lookup_dcookie","remap_file_pages","restart_syscall","semtimedop","timer_create","timer_settime","timer_gettime","timer_getoverrun","timer_delete","mbind","set_mempolicy","get_mempolicy","mq_open","mq_unlink","mq_timedsend","mq_timedreceive","mq_notify","mq_getsetattr","kexec_load","add_key","ioprio_set","ioprio_get","inotify_init","migrate_pages","mkdirat","mknodat","fchownat","futimesat","renameat","linkat","symlinkat","fchmodat","pselect6","unshare","get_robust_list","tee","sync_file_range","vmsplice","move_pages","signalfd","eventfd","timerfd_gettime","dup3","preadv","rt_tgsigqueueinfo","perf_event_open","recvmmsg","fanotify_init","fanotify_mark","open_by_handle_at","clock_adjtime","syncfs","sendmmsg","getcpu","process_vm_readv","process_vm_writev","kcmp","finit_module","sched_setattr","sched_getattr","renameat2","seccomp","kexec_file_load","bpf","userfaultfd","membarrier","statx"],"action":"SCMP_ACT_ERRNO"}]}
```

Apply the `nginx-deny` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/nginx-explicit-deny.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod nginx-deny -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `nginx-deny` pod is running.

#### Clean-up:

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/nginx-explicit-deny.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/confine-nginx-explicit-deny.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Confine NGINX - Explicit Allow
This profile defaults to the `SCMP_ACT_ERRNO` action and explicitly allows a list of syscalls using the `SCMP_ACT_ALLOW` action.

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/confine-nginx-explicit-allow.yaml
```

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
ls -al /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/

total 16
total 4
drwxr--r-- 2 65535 65535   32 Oct 27 19:21 .
drwxr--r-- 4 65535 65535   60 Oct 21 19:09 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535 1686 Oct 27 19:21 confine-nginx-explicit-allow.json

cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/confine-nginx-explicit-allow.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_ERRNO","architectures":["SCMP_ARCH_X86_64","SCMP_ARCH_X86","SCMP_ARCH_X32"],"syscalls":[{"names":["accept","accept4","access","afs_syscall","alarm","arch_prctl","bind","brk","capget","capset","chdir","chmod","chown","chroot","clock_getres","clock_gettime","clock_nanosleep","clock_settime","clone","close","connect","copy_file_range","creat","create_module","dup","dup2","epoll_create","epoll_create1","epoll_ctl","epoll_ctl_old","epoll_pwait","epoll_wait","epoll_wait_old","eventfd2","execve","execveat","exit","exit_group","faccessat","fadvise64","fallocate","fchdir","fchmod","fchown","fcntl","fdatasync","fgetxattr","flistxattr","fremovexattr","fsetxattr","fstat","fstatfs","fsync","ftruncate","futex","get_kernel_syms","getcwd","getdents","getdents64","getegid","geteuid","getgid","getgroups","getpgrp","getpid","getpmsg","getppid","getrandom","getresgid","getresuid","getrlimit","getrusage","getsid","getsockname","getsockopt","gettid","gettimeofday","getuid","getxattr","inotify_add_watch","inotify_init1","inotify_rm_watch","io_destroy","io_getevents","io_setup","ioctl","keyctl","kill","lgetxattr","link","listen","listxattr","llistxattr","lremovexattr","lseek","lsetxattr","lstat","madvise","memfd_create","mkdir","mlock","mlock2","mmap","mount","mprotect","mremap","munmap","name_to_handle_at","nanosleep","newfstatat","nfsservctl","open","openat","pipe","pipe2","pkey_alloc","pkey_free","pkey_mprotect","poll","ppoll","prctl","pread64","preadv2","prlimit64","putpmsg","pwrite64","pwritev","pwritev2","query_module","read","readlink","readlinkat","readv","recvfrom","recvmsg","removexattr","rename","request_key","rmdir","rt_sigaction","rt_sigprocmask","rt_sigreturn","rt_sigsuspend","rt_sigtimedwait","sched_get_priority_max","sched_get_priority_min","sched_getaffinity","sched_getparam","sched_getscheduler","sched_setaffinity","sched_setparam","sched_setscheduler","sched_yield","security","select","sendfile","sendmsg","sendto","set_robust_list","set_tid_address","setdomainname","setgid","setgroups","sethostname","setitimer","setns","setpgid","setpriority","setresgid","setresuid","setrlimit","setsid","setsockopt","setuid","setxattr","shmat","shmdt","shmget","shutdown","sigaltstack","signalfd","socket","socketpair","splice","stat","statfs","sysinfo","tgkill","time","timerfd_create","timerfd_settime","times","tuxcall","umask","umount2","uname","unlink","unlinkat","uselib","utimensat","utimes","vfork","vserver","wait4","waitid","write","writev"],"action":"SCMP_ACT_ALLOW"}]}
```

Apply the `nginx-allow` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/nginx-explicit-allow.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod nginx-allow -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `nginx-allow` pod is running.

#### Clean-up:

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/nginx-explicit-allow.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/confine-nginx-explicit-allow.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

<sub><sup>Note: Seccomp profiles have been adapted from [Security Profiles Operator examples](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator/tree/master/examples) and [Kubernetes deccomp documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/clusters/seccomp/).</sup></sub>

---

[Linux x86 64 bit Syscall Table](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/v4.17/arch/x86/entry/syscalls/syscall_64.tbl)

---

[EKS Best Practices Guides](https://aws.github.io/aws-eks-best-practices/)

Commit message:

security profiles operators readme command execution location

Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator/README.md, after:

## Security Profiles Operator

---

Linux processes run in [Linux User Space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_space), and use [Syscalls](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/syscalls.2.html) to access Kernel resources in [Linux Kernel Space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_kernel). Following [least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege) best practices, syscalls should be restricted to only those needed by an application.

Secure computing mode, a.k.a. [seccomp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seccomp) , is a Linux kernel feature that is used to restrict the syscalls available to the application/container.

In this section of the workshop, attendees will use the `Security Profiles Operator` to install seccomp profiles into the `seccomp-test` Kubernetes namespace, and apply the syscall-restricting profiles to pods running in the `seccomp-test` namespace. The `Security Profiles Operator` installs the seccomp profiles onto cluster nodes. Pods reference the seccomp profiles using the pod-spec `securityContext` element, seen below.

```yaml
  securityContext:
    seccompProfile:
      type: Localhost
      localhostProfile: operator/seccomp-test/<SECCOMP_PROFILE_NAME>.json
```

Applying restrictive seccomp profiles is a way to enforce least privilege syscalls on pods.

(Note: Using a Kubernetes validating admission controller, like [OPA/Gatekeeper](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/08/06/opa-gatekeeper-policy-and-governance-for-kubernetes/), can enforce the configuration of seccomp profiles in the `securityContext` element of pod resources.)

---

[Security Profiles Operator](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator)

[Installation and Usage Documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator/blob/master/installation-usage.md)

[Restrict a Container's Syscalls with seccomp](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/clusters/seccomp/)

---

### Installation
```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.5.4/cert-manager.yaml
kubectl --namespace cert-manager wait --for condition=ready pod -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=cert-manager
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator/master/deploy/operator.yaml
```

### Deinstallation
(Note: Profiles cannot be deleted while still in use.)

```bash
kubectl delete seccompprofiles --all --all-namespaces
kubectl delete -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator/master/deploy/operator.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Complainer
In this example, a seccomp profile is used to setup seccomp in "complain mode", logging syscalls made by a pod.

:point_right: The following two commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/complainer.yaml
```
Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/complainer.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_LOG"}

exit
```
Apply the `complainer` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

:point_right: The following *kubectl apply* command needs to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/complainer.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod complainer -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `complainer` pod is running.

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session on the pod node, and verify that syscalls are being logged:
(Note: The IP address column may need to be added to the SSM Fleet Manager console to help locate the correct managed instance.)

```bash
sudo su
cat /var/log/audit/audit.log | grep nginx

exit
```
Log entries should contain syscalls:

```bash
...
type=SECCOMP msg=audit(1634920756.032:13211): auid=4294967295 uid=0 gid=101 ses=4294967295 pid=19014 comm="nginx" exe="/usr/sbin/nginx" sig=0 arch=c000003e syscall=8 compat=0 ip=0x7f5648cbf597 code=0x7ffc0000
...
```

#### Clean-up:

:point_right: The following three commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/complainer.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/complainer.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Complain and block high-risk
In this example, we will apply a seccomp profile that logs syscalls, blocks high-risk syscalls, and allows some essential syscalls. 

:point_right: The following two commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/multiple.yaml
```

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
ls -al /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/

total 16
drwxr--r-- 2 65535 65535 150 Oct 22 16:30 .
drwxr--r-- 4 65535 65535  60 Oct 21 19:09 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  34 Oct 22 16:30 profile-allow-unsafe.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  34 Oct 22 16:30 profile-block-all.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535 813 Oct 22 16:30 profile-complain-block-high-risk.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  32 Oct 22 16:30 profile-complain-unsafe.json

cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/profile-complain-block-high-risk.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_LOG","architectures":["SCMP_ARCH_X86_64"],"syscalls":[{"names":["exit","exit_group","futex","nanosleep"],"action":"SCMP_ACT_ALLOW"},{"names":["acct","add_key","bpf","clock_adjtime","clock_settime","create_module","delete_module","finit_module","get_kernel_syms","get_mempolicy","init_module","ioperm","iopl","kcmp","kexec_file_load","kexec_load","keyctl","lookup_dcookie","mbind","mount","move_pages","name_to_handle_at","nfsservctl","open_by_handle_at","perf_event_open","personality","pivot_root","process_vm_readv","process_vm_writev","ptrace","query_module","quotactl","reboot","request_key","set_mempolicy","setns","settimeofday","stime","swapoff","swapon","_sysctl","sysfs","umount2","umount","unshare","uselib","userfaultfd","ustat","vm86old","vm86"],"action":"SCMP_ACT_ERRNO"}]}
```

Apply the `block-high-risk` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

:point_right: The *kubectk apply* command needs to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/block-high-risk.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod block-high-risk -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `block-high-risk` pod is running.

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session on the pod node, and verify that syscalls are being logged:
(Note: The IP address column may need to be added to the SSM Fleet Manager console to help locate the correct managed instance.)

```bash
sudo su
cat /var/log/audit/audit.log | grep nginx

exit
```

Log entries should contain syscalls:

```bash
...
type=SECCOMP msg=audit(1634920756.032:13211): auid=4294967295 uid=0 gid=101 ses=4294967295 pid=19014 comm="nginx" exe="/usr/sbin/nginx" sig=0 arch=c000003e syscall=8 compat=0 ip=0x7f5648cbf597 code=0x7ffc0000
...
```

#### Clean-up:

:point_right: The following three commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/block-high-risk.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/multiple.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Block all
In this example, we will apply a seccomp profile that blocks all syscalls. This will prevent the NGINX container from starting.

:point_right: The following three commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/multiple.yaml
```

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
ls -al /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/

total 16
drwxr--r-- 2 65535 65535 150 Oct 22 16:30 .
drwxr--r-- 4 65535 65535  60 Oct 21 19:09 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  34 Oct 22 16:30 profile-allow-unsafe.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  34 Oct 22 16:30 profile-block-all.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535 813 Oct 22 16:30 profile-complain-block-high-risk.json
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535  32 Oct 22 16:30 profile-complain-unsafe.json

cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/profile-block-all.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_ERRNO"}

```

Apply the `block-all` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

:point_right: The *kubectl apply* command needs to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/block-all.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod block-all -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `block-all` pod is not running.
```bash
kubectl describe pod block-all | grep -i error
```

The output should be similar to this:
```bash
...
Error: failed to start container "block-all-container": Error response from daemon: cannot start a stopped process: unknown
...
```

#### Clean-up:

:point_right: The following three commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/block-all.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/multiple.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Confine NGINX - Explicit Deny
In this example, we will apply a seccomp profile that was created using the [confine](https://github.com/shamedgh/confine) tool. This profile defaults to the `SCMP_ACT_ALLOW` action and explicitly denies a list of syscalls using the `SCMP_ACT_ERRNO` action.

:point_right: The following two commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/confine-nginx-explicit-deny.yaml
```

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
ls -al /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/

total 16
total 4
drwxr--r-- 2 65535 65535   32 Oct 27 19:21 .
drwxr--r-- 4 65535 65535   60 Oct 21 19:09 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535 1686 Oct 27 19:21 confine-nginx-explicit-deny.json

cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/confine-nginx-explicit-deny.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_ALLOW","architectures":["SCMP_ARCH_X86_64","SCMP_ARCH_X86","SCMP_ARCH_X32"],"syscalls":[{"names":["msync","mincore","shmctl","pause","getitimer","getpeername","fork","semget","semop","semctl","msgget","msgsnd","msgrcv","msgctl","flock","truncate","symlink","lchown","ptrace","syslog","setreuid","setregid","getpgid","setfsuid","setfsgid","rt_sigpending","rt_sigqueueinfo","utime","mknod","personality","ustat","sysfs","getpriority","sched_rr_get_interval","munlock","mlockall","munlockall","vhangup","modify_ldt","pivot_root","adjtimex","sync","acct","settimeofday","swapon","swapoff","reboot","iopl","ioperm","init_module","delete_module","quotactl","readahead","tkill","set_thread_area","io_submit","io_cancel","get_thread_area","lookup_dcookie","remap_file_pages","restart_syscall","semtimedop","timer_create","timer_settime","timer_gettime","timer_getoverrun","timer_delete","mbind","set_mempolicy","get_mempolicy","mq_open","mq_unlink","mq_timedsend","mq_timedreceive","mq_notify","mq_getsetattr","kexec_load","add_key","ioprio_set","ioprio_get","inotify_init","migrate_pages","mkdirat","mknodat","fchownat","futimesat","renameat","linkat","symlinkat","fchmodat","pselect6","unshare","get_robust_list","tee","sync_file_range","vmsplice","move_pages","signalfd","eventfd","timerfd_gettime","dup3","preadv","rt_tgsigqueueinfo","perf_event_open","recvmmsg","fanotify_init","fanotify_mark","open_by_handle_at","clock_adjtime","syncfs","sendmmsg","getcpu","process_vm_readv","process_vm_writev","kcmp","finit_module","sched_setattr","sched_getattr","renameat2","seccomp","kexec_file_load","bpf","userfaultfd","membarrier","statx"],"action":"SCMP_ACT_ERRNO"}]}
```

Apply the `nginx-deny` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

:point_right: The *kubectl apply* command needs to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/nginx-explicit-deny.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod nginx-deny -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `nginx-deny` pod is running.

#### Clean-up:

:point_right: The following three commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/nginx-explicit-deny.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/confine-nginx-explicit-deny.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

---

### Examples - Confine NGINX - Explicit Allow
This profile defaults to the `SCMP_ACT_ERRNO` action and explicitly allows a list of syscalls using the `SCMP_ACT_ALLOW` action.

:point_right: The following two commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f profiles/ns.yaml
kubectl apply -f profiles/confine-nginx-explicit-allow.yaml
```

Using AWS Systems Manager (SSM) Fleet Manager, start a session with the EKS node EC2 instance, and verify that the seccomp profile was created at `/var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/{NAMESPACE}/{POLICY_NAME}.json` on each node.

```bash
sudo su
ls -al /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/

total 16
total 4
drwxr--r-- 2 65535 65535   32 Oct 27 19:21 .
drwxr--r-- 4 65535 65535   60 Oct 21 19:09 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 65535 65535 1686 Oct 27 19:21 confine-nginx-explicit-allow.json

cat /var/lib/kubelet/seccomp/operator/seccomp-test/confine-nginx-explicit-allow.json

{"defaultAction":"SCMP_ACT_ERRNO","architectures":["SCMP_ARCH_X86_64","SCMP_ARCH_X86","SCMP_ARCH_X32"],"syscalls":[{"names":["accept","accept4","access","afs_syscall","alarm","arch_prctl","bind","brk","capget","capset","chdir","chmod","chown","chroot","clock_getres","clock_gettime","clock_nanosleep","clock_settime","clone","close","connect","copy_file_range","creat","create_module","dup","dup2","epoll_create","epoll_create1","epoll_ctl","epoll_ctl_old","epoll_pwait","epoll_wait","epoll_wait_old","eventfd2","execve","execveat","exit","exit_group","faccessat","fadvise64","fallocate","fchdir","fchmod","fchown","fcntl","fdatasync","fgetxattr","flistxattr","fremovexattr","fsetxattr","fstat","fstatfs","fsync","ftruncate","futex","get_kernel_syms","getcwd","getdents","getdents64","getegid","geteuid","getgid","getgroups","getpgrp","getpid","getpmsg","getppid","getrandom","getresgid","getresuid","getrlimit","getrusage","getsid","getsockname","getsockopt","gettid","gettimeofday","getuid","getxattr","inotify_add_watch","inotify_init1","inotify_rm_watch","io_destroy","io_getevents","io_setup","ioctl","keyctl","kill","lgetxattr","link","listen","listxattr","llistxattr","lremovexattr","lseek","lsetxattr","lstat","madvise","memfd_create","mkdir","mlock","mlock2","mmap","mount","mprotect","mremap","munmap","name_to_handle_at","nanosleep","newfstatat","nfsservctl","open","openat","pipe","pipe2","pkey_alloc","pkey_free","pkey_mprotect","poll","ppoll","prctl","pread64","preadv2","prlimit64","putpmsg","pwrite64","pwritev","pwritev2","query_module","read","readlink","readlinkat","readv","recvfrom","recvmsg","removexattr","rename","request_key","rmdir","rt_sigaction","rt_sigprocmask","rt_sigreturn","rt_sigsuspend","rt_sigtimedwait","sched_get_priority_max","sched_get_priority_min","sched_getaffinity","sched_getparam","sched_getscheduler","sched_setaffinity","sched_setparam","sched_setscheduler","sched_yield","security","select","sendfile","sendmsg","sendto","set_robust_list","set_tid_address","setdomainname","setgid","setgroups","sethostname","setitimer","setns","setpgid","setpriority","setresgid","setresuid","setrlimit","setsid","setsockopt","setuid","setxattr","shmat","shmdt","shmget","shutdown","sigaltstack","signalfd","socket","socketpair","splice","stat","statfs","sysinfo","tgkill","time","timerfd_create","timerfd_settime","times","tuxcall","umask","umount2","uname","unlink","unlinkat","uselib","utimensat","utimes","vfork","vserver","wait4","waitid","write","writev"],"action":"SCMP_ACT_ALLOW"}]}
```

Apply the `nginx-allow` pod, and determine the node on which the pod was scheduled:

:point_right: The *kubectl apply* command needs to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl apply -f pods/nginx-explicit-allow.yaml
kubectl -n seccomp-test get pod nginx-allow -o wide
```

Verify that the NGINX container in the `nginx-allow` pod is running.

#### Clean-up:

:point_right: The following three commands need to be executed from the following folder: *eks-security-compromised-cluster-remediation/Implement_Countermeasures/security-profiles-operator*

```bash
kubectl delete -f pods/nginx-explicit-allow.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/confine-nginx-explicit-allow.yaml
kubectl delete -f profiles/ns.yaml
```

<sub><sup>Note: Seccomp profiles have been adapted from [Security Profiles Operator examples](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator/tree/master/examples) and [Kubernetes deccomp documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/clusters/seccomp/).</sup></sub>

---

[Linux x86 64 bit Syscall Table](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/v4.17/arch/x86/entry/syscalls/syscall_64.tbl)

---

[EKS Best Practices Guides](https://aws.github.io/aws-eks-best-practices/)
